DOC_ID: 82002
URL: https://yementimes.com/queen-arwa-university-celebrates-another-achievementgraduation-ceremony-held-archives2003-645-community/
IS_EVIDENCE: True
IS_GOLD: True
IS_NEGATIVE: False
---
title: Queen Arwa University Celebrates another achievement:Graduation ceremony held [Archives:2003/645/Community]
date: 2003-06-26
---
Queen Arwa University Celebrates another achievement:Graduation ceremony held [Archives:2003/645/Community]

Queen Arwa University's graduation ceremony of the fourth batch, also named the "unity and democracy batch", from colleges of engineering, science, arts, commerce, and rights was held on Sunday June 22 at the Queen Arwa University in Sanaa with the presence of Vice President Mr. Abdo Rabbu Mansour Hadi along with several prominent personalities.

At the ceremony, Minister of High Education, Abdul Wahhab Raweh delivered a speech in which he said that the progress of a nation is measured by how much knowledge it possesses and the distance it has crossed on the way to development of knowledge.

He added that Yemen has been going in two directions of investment; in the basic service fields including construction of roads, communication, and the likes and also in the human resources investment field represented in educational development and the graduation of university students from governmental and private universities.

On her part, Dr. Wahiba Fare'a, rector of the university delivered a speech in which she made clear that since it was established in 1995, Queen Arwa University has been active in adopting the best and most effective methods for building students physically, psychologically, and mentally.

The university's award of merit was given at the end of the ceremony to the Vice President. The ceremony was also attended by Hassan Makki, President's Advisor, Abdul Wasi' Hayel Saeed, member of the parliament, along with a number of the diplomatic corps and prominent local personalities, plus the teaching staff.

It is worth noting that the university has been seeking to implement educational programs to enable students to keep pace with advancements in technology, arts and sciences.

It also forges cultural and scientific links and exchanges with universities, institutes and scientific establishments in the Arab world, as well as globally.

——

[archive-e:645-v:13-y:2003-d:2003-06-26-p:community]
