DOC_ID: 5412
URL: https://yementimes.com/arwa-university-holds-annual-cultural-activities-archives2002-20-local-news-3/
IS_EVIDENCE: True
IS_GOLD: True
IS_NEGATIVE: False
---
title: Arwa University holds annual cultural activities [Archives:2002/20/Local News]
date: 2002-05-13
---
Arwa University holds annual cultural activities [Archives:2002/20/Local News]

BY ABDUH AL-SABRI

YEMEN TIMES STAFF

Under the sponsorship of the president Ali Abdullah Saleh and under the motto (Jerusalem is Ours), the Queen Arwa University held its Fifth Cultural Week (FCW) on May 9-11 2002, which was coincided with the Palestine Intifadha against the Zionist atrocities in the occupied land.

The 3-day FCWs activities focused mainly on the Palestinian support. Symposiums, political and cultural lectures were delivered to show solidarity with people in Palestine. Al-Afeef Cultural Foundation had a vital participation in making the FCW a success.

Dr. Abdulaziz Abdulghani, the Shura Council Chairman highly appreciated the efforts exerted by the Queen Arwa University and making of the FCW a success in packing the Palestinians up.

Our brothers in Palestine have been fighting tooth and nails for the sake of their legal right which represents a true exemplary of a resounding victory of strong Palestinian will, the Shura Council Chairman highly praised Palestinians.

In the same context, the T.V. Sector Chairman, Abdulghani al-Shameri said that the Queen Arwa University has done its spare no efforts to hold such activities for the benefit of the Palestinians.

We are hoping that other universities will follow the example of the Queen Arwa University, in highlighting the Palestinian issue to the public, al-Shameri said to the Yemen Times reporter.

On the sideline of the FCWs activities, a bazaar was allotted to support the Palestinian Intifadha.

Poetic sessions soiree was delivered by the Dr. Abdulaziz al-Makaleh and Sulaiman al-Aisi in conjunction with al-Afeef Cultural Foundation. In addition to this, several exhibitions shows were presented by the Arab and foreign embassies in our country.

The FCW was attended by the Shura Council Chairman, Abdulaziz Abdulghani, State Minister of the Human Rights, Dr. Waheeba Farae, the Palestinian Ambassador, Yahia Rabah, members of the diplomatic missions on Yemen, social dignitaries, members of the parliament, academicians, teaching staff of the university and others.

During the FCWs activities, distinguished top participants were honored in appreciation of their limitless efforts to support Palestinians.

——

[archive-e:20-v:2002-y:2002-d:2002-05-13-p:./2002/iss20/ln.htm]
